**R-FALLOW** (***F**orest, **A**groforest, **L**ow-value **L**and **O**r **W**asteland*) is a model of rural landscape dynamics and related economic-ecological trade-off developed using the R language. It has unique characteristics as compared to other rural landscape models mainly because it simulates landcover change at landscape (e.g., district or province) scale driven by smallholder farmers' decision on labour, financial and land allocation to land use options. Therefore, it considers smallholder farmers as the main agent of land use dynamics, along with possible land use change over State’s or concession lands or conversion of forest lands. Existing models of rural landscape dynamics usually create projection of future land uses using e.g., land use transition matrix. 

The initial version of the FALLOW model was developed by van Noordwijk (2002) using the Stella programming platform, which was then translated into the PC Raster version (e.g., see Suyamto et al. 2009) to better handle the spatial input information. More recently, to better facilitate model’s parametrisation and a possibility for the model to ‘communicate’ with other models developed using the contemporary R or Java language, the FALLOW model is translated into the R programming language. The FALLOW model has been used as a supporting tool to assess projected impacts and analyse economic-ecological trade-off among land use scenarios in different countries especially in Southeast Asia such as Indonesia, the Philippines, and Vietnam (van Noordwijk et al. 2008, Lusiana et al. 2012, Mulia et al. 2013, Tata et al. 2013, Mulia et al. 2018).
